Licence agreement

Preamble

Following the ideas of open source software, the provider of this
licence provides access to the software for anyone without fee, under
the following conditions which are similar to the Lesser Gnu Public
License (LGPL).

The aim of this licence agreement is to enable the free use of the
software that is described in the sequel by anyone. In order to
guarantee this, it is necessary to set up rules for the use of the
software that hold for any user.

Providers of this licence are National Institute of Advanced
Industrial Science and Technology (hereafter referred as AIST) and
University of Wales Swansea (hereafter referred as UWS). AIST and UWS
are hereafter referred to collectively "licence providers".

Following the ideas of open source software, the licence providers
give access to the software without fee for anyone (called "licence
taker" in the sequel) under certain conditions. Each licence taker
obligates himself to follow the terms of use below.


1 Principle

Each licence taker appreciating these terms of use receives a simple
right, not restricted in time and space and without any fee, to use
the software, in particular, to copy, distribute and process
it. Exclusively the following terms of use do hold. The licence
providers explicitly contradict any conflicting terms of business. By
making use of the rights described below, in particular by copying or
distributing it, a licence treaty between the licence providers and
the licence takes is concluded.


2 Copying

The licence taker has the right to make and distribute unmodified
copies of the software on any media. Prerequisite for this is that the
licence providers and this licence agreement are clearly recognizable,
and that the sources are distributed together with the software.


3 Modification and Distribution

The licence taker has the right to modify copies of the software (or
parts thereof) and to distribute these modifications under the terms
of Section 2 above and the following conditions:

  (1) The modified software has to carry a clear mark that points to
      the original licence providers, the modification that has been
      made, and the date of the modification.

  (2) The licence taker has to ensure that the software as a whole or
      parts of it are accessible to third parties under the terms of
      this licence agreement without fee.

  (3) If during the modification a copyright of the licence taker
      emerges, then this copyright must be put under the terms of this
      licence if the modified software is distributed.


4 Other duties

  (1) Reference to the validity of this licence agreement must not be
      modified or deleted by the licence taker.

  (2) The use of the software by third parties must not be conditioned
      by the fulfillment of duties that are not mentioned in this
      licence agreement.

  (3) The use of the software must not be prevented or complicated by
      means of technical protection, in particular copy protection means.


5 Liability, Update

  (1) The licence providers shall not be liable for any damages
      suffered by the licence taker or others as a result of using,
      modifying or distributing this software or its derivatives. The
      licence providers do not give any warranty, and neither ensures
      any properties of the software.

  (2) The licence providers have the right to update these terms of
      use at any time.


6 Forum for users

The licence providers do provide neither support nor
consultation. Without acknowledgment of any legal duty, the licence
providers will care about the installation of a user forum for
discussions about the software and its further development.


7 Legal domicile

It is agreed that the laws of Japan and the United Kingdom are valid
for this licence agreement. For any lawsuits or legal actions emerging
from this licence agreement, it is agreed that only either Japanese
courts or United Kingdom courts are competent. Legal domiciles are
Tsukuba in Japan and Swansea in the United Kingdom.


8 Termination through Offense

Any violation of a duty of this agreement automatically terminates the
rights of use of the offender.


9 Salvatorian Clause

If any rule of this agreement should be or become inoperative,
validity of the other rules is not affected. The parties will care
about replacing the invalid rule by some valid rule that comes close
to the purpose of this agreement.
